Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we're going to implement the key functionality for our piano.
All right, so we have successfully implemented the Kleck functionality for the piano.
Now it's time for the key.
So in order to do that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to the top and I'm going to create
two more constants because I want to map it to those constants.
Right.
And I'm going to say consed right.
And I'm going to create the white keys that we want to play on the keyboard and the Black Keys that
we want to play.
Whenever we press on the keyboard, we want this piano to be played as well.
So now let's go ahead and let's think about the variable name, because we have already used our Black
Keys and our white keys.
We could go ahead and say, like W Keys.
In that case, this would be like a very vague element, like a sorry variable name, we could say.
So let's go ahead and let's we could use them in capital letters as well.
OK, so I could say White Dasch keys, we could I think, no, this is not a valid name.
So what if we we change it to underscore now this is a valid name.
So we could use this.
Now I want to grab all of our keys and I want to store them inside an array so we can access that array.
What we are going to do is whenever we access that array, we are basically we are just going to implement
like an event listener.
And we know what what is the event that we are listening for?
It is the key down event.
It is some sort of key event which we are going to use key key down.
So what are the keys?
We knew we should be able to know what the keys are.
So these are the keys.
It is going to take a very, very long time for me to be able to write them.
So it's Z, X, C, V, B and M, so this is C, sorry, Z, X, C, V, B and and M.
All right.
So this is the White Keys.
What are the Black Keys.
So let's change it to black and for the black.
We are going to have S and D and then we have G H.
So this is going to be G and then we have H and we have J.
And where is the J.
And we don't have too much because we have almost seven, we have seven white keys and we have five
black keys.
So we have successfully created these arrays because they are more than one item and we want to create
them and say JavaScript.
So we shouldn't do document because they're not inside document.
We just created them here.
We just created to erase four white keys and four Black Keys.
And I'm going to come way down here and I'm going to say document.
Dot Adamsville listener.
Document that at the center now this event is going to run on the document, so why is that important?
So whenever you're inside your editor and when you type Zella's, you're you're seeing that this piano
is not being played and you have a Z letter right here.
This piano using the keyboard keys is only going to be played whenever you're inside this this project,
inside this workspace, then it is going to be played.
If you're outside of it, it is not going to be played.
So whenever you're inside the document and then pressing keys, then this piano is going to play.
And that's exactly what we want.
So we are going to say document that a development center and we're going to listen, listen, listen
for a key down.
And when the key is down, we are going to run a function.
Let's grab the event object as well as a parameter, because we want to work with it.
So first off, I'm going to create a concept.
Let's let's use that.
We have we haven't used that in a while.
So let's say key is going to be equal to now.
We create a key.
Now, we have created this key.
We do have a loop variable.
But keep in mind that this key is is used as used only for this function.
And this is a very variable, of course.
But this key is a loop variable.
A loop variable is only accessible within that loop.
Right.
So we shouldn't have any conflicts there.
And we are going to set it to eat, let's let's just save it and let's say.
Let me bring it like this so we can see all the other code.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's say console, dot, lock.
And let's grab the key, let's take a look at it, what that is.
So if I if I come here to the document and when I present our any key that we have.
All right.
So it's only key down.
So whenever you're inside the document and whenever even if you're if you're heading the key, it is
going to do something.
I can show you that, of course, we have our keyboard right here.
So let's click inside the document and click on the we are going to see an event, click on the key.
We are going to see an event, click on the piece.
We are going to see an event file and the key is P. But we do not want the other keys to fire an event.
We want only the Zedek CVB and an SD GHG, only these twelve keys to play an event.
And for that reason we have created to erase.
We don't want the other keys to fire an event.
So when I click this, when I press that, we are going to get this.
So let's crack it open.
Let's take a look at it.
And in here, this is where what it gives us.
So this is going to give us the key, which has been pressed, the exact key.
So when I press you, OK, so let's go to their press you it is going to give us you.
And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to control the lock key.
Dot key.
I hope you're not getting confused.
This key is our variable.
This key is a property of this event object.
Let's say it.
Let's click on it so we get W and W here because I click on the W.
So now let's go ahead and let's remove this.
I'm just going to go ahead and remove this cancer that log, remove it and I'm going to say e dot key.
So we want to grab the key, let's click and let's press the Z.
So sdf j k l we are going to grab all those.
So now we have successfully we have successfully implemented the key that we want to grab.
So what is it that we want to do next.
So what do you want to do next is we want to access these arrays by their index.
Of course.
Why else would we use arrays?
So we are going to say const just say I always misspelled const, I'm going to say white key index and
I'm going to say, so where do the index come from.
Indices come from they're going to come from, from, from our constant, from our array that we have
created there.
So we are accessing that.
Right.
This is an array, this is the array name and we are going to say find or index of index off.
So we are going to pass on a key there.
Right.
And let's go ahead and let's consider log the key or the white key index.
So the wide key index card.
So don't log.
So let's put it in parentheses and let's remove this dot.
Let's save it.
So when I click that and when I press each, we are going to see minus one.
The reason that this gives me minus one is very, very, very crucial to this app, which we are going
to discuss in our next lecture.
See you guys then.